# Actualización 1.7 de Infinite Chess!

## Partidas por puntos + Tablas de puntuación

* ¡Los usuarios ahora pueden escojer jugar una partida por puntos en el menú! ¡Gana partidas para mejorar tu puntuación! Ahora puedes ver una estimación del nivel de tu rival.

* Se ha añadido una página con la tabla de puntuación. ¿Como de alto puedes llegar? Los jugadores nuevos no aparecen de inmediato en la tabla, solo tras jugar aproximadamente cuatro partidas por puntos.

* Se han actualizado los contenedores de nombre de usuario para que muestren su puntuación, y un link a su perfíl. Ahora también son visibles en dispositivos móviles. 

## Anotaciones

* Haz clic derecho en el tablero para mostrar casillar, y arrastra para dibujar flechas!
* Double-right-click-drag to draw *rays*, which are an infinite line of square highlights in one direction. These can be used to quickly and efficiently line up long-distance attacks, without having to perform mental math to calculate what squares you need to land on.

* Left click to collapse annotations. By default, this erases all square and arrow highlights, but if you have any drawn rays, then instead square highlights are added at all ray intersection points, and all rays are erased.

* When zoomed out, annotations are rendered the same size as the pieces, and squares and rays can be clicked to automatically zoom into them.

* Added a lingering annotations toggle in the settings dropdown. When enabled, selecting pieces will not automatically erase your existing annotations. This allows your annotations to persist from move to move, allowing you to remember key squares or line up attacks beforehand. You can still erase annotations by clicking an empty region of the board.

* Mobile users have a new annotations button on the navigation bar, which when enabled will treat all touches as their right-click counterpart, allowing you to draw annotations without requiring a mouse. This means mobile users are not disadvantaged against pc users by not being able to draw rays to help line up long distance attacks.

## Snapping

* When you are zoomed out, and you hover the mouse over any legal move line or ray, your mouse will snap to points on that line that cardinally intersect with other pieces, or annotations, and clicking will immediately zoom you into that point! This makes it quick and easy to line up attacks without having to meticulously find the exact square you need.

## Other additions

* Added a piece-animations toggle in the settings dropdown. When disabled, pieces instantly teleport from their start square to their end square.

* Mini images, even when they are disabled in large variants, now *always* render pieces above square highlights, and the piece last moved. This is useful for keeping track of important pieces while zoomed out in large showcase variants.

* Preset rays and squares have been added to the Omega^2 showcase to emphasize the important lines and squares for the main line of play. These are permanent and cannot be erased. Game notation also now supports preset squares and rays.

* Holding alt and left clicking can be used to simulate a right click.

* Added an automated password reset system on the login page.