docs/TRANSLATIONS.md, before:

# Translation guide #

This guide will walk you through the process of creating translations for [InfiniteChess.org](https://www.infinitechess.org). It is assumed you have already gone through the [Setup](./SETUP.md) process.

## Navigation ##

Anything that matters to you as a translator is located in the [translation](../translation/) directory. Translation files are stored in TOML format (you can read more about its syntax [here](https://toml.io/)). Generally, it is a very aproachable format, and you only need to understand the absolute basics of it, which are explained below.

## Translation files ##

### Name ###

Each file is named after its language [BCP 47 language tag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag). BCP 47 tags are composed of this format (notice the capitalization):

`lng-(script)-REGION-(extensions)`

For example, `en-US` for American English, `sv` for Swedish, `zh-Hant-HK` for Chinese spoken in Hong Kong written in traditional script.

You should name your file this way and only this way, otherwise it won't be correctly detected.

### Content ###

Translation files in TOML format consist of keys, values, table headers and comments, like this:

```toml
[table-header]
# Comment
key1 = "value1"
key2 = "value2"
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **You should only change values and comments. Please, leave everything else unmodified when translating!**.

## Translation process ##

In case you are translating a language that is currently not present in the project, you can start the process by copying [en-US.toml](../translation/en-US.toml) and renaming it as described above. If you are updating an existing language, the only thing you need to do is to update the `version` variable at the top of your TOML document to the value of the `version` variable in [en-US.toml](../translation/en-US.toml).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You should always use [en-US.toml](../translation/en-US.toml) as a reference. It is the only file that is up to date and comes straight from the developers. Do not use any other files!

Then you can start a test server with `npx nodemon` and start translating. If you insert the address `https://localhost:3443` into your browser, the website should be there and it should automatically update as you make your changes (after reloading the page). Make sure that you have selected the language that you are editing in the website's UI. There is a footer with a language selection dropdown at the bottom of almost every page.

In case you are updating an existing language and you aren't sure what has changed since the last update, you can view changes of `en-US.toml` [here](https://github.com/Infinite-Chess/infinitechess.org/commits/main/translation/en-US.toml).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If there is an HTML tag in the value you want to translate, do not modify it!
> 
> Example of an HTML tag:
> ```html
> <a href="https://www.google.com"> Hello World </a>
> ```
> In this example you should only change the words *Hello World*.

When you are finished, you should open a pull request as described in [SETUP.md](./SETUP.md).

## Conclusion ##

Thank you for your contribution! In case of any trouble or questions, you can join [the discord](https://discord.gg/NFWFGZeNh5).

Commit message:

added link to changelog in translation doc

docs/TRANSLATIONS.md, after:

# Translation guide #

This guide will walk you through the process of creating translations for [InfiniteChess.org](https://www.infinitechess.org). It is assumed you have already gone through the [Setup](./SETUP.md) process.

## Navigation ##

Anything that matters to you as a translator is located in the [translation](../translation/) directory. Translation files are stored in TOML format (you can read more about its syntax [here](https://toml.io/)). Generally, it is a very aproachable format, and you only need to understand the absolute basics of it, which are explained below.

## Translation files ##

### Name ###

Each file is named after its language [BCP 47 language tag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag). BCP 47 tags are composed of this format (notice the capitalization):

`lng-(script)-REGION-(extensions)`

For example, `en-US` for American English, `sv` for Swedish, `zh-Hant-HK` for Chinese spoken in Hong Kong written in traditional script.

You should name your file this way and only this way, otherwise it won't be correctly detected.

### Content ###

Translation files in TOML format consist of keys, values, table headers and comments, like this:

```toml
[table-header]
# Comment
key1 = "value1"
key2 = "value2"
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **You should only change values and comments. Please, leave everything else unmodified when translating!**.

## Translation process ##

In case you are translating a language that is currently not present in the project, you can start the process by copying [en-US.toml](../translation/en-US.toml) and renaming it as described above. If you are updating an existing language, the only thing you need to do is to update the `version` variable at the top of your TOML document to the value of the `version` variable in [en-US.toml](../translation/en-US.toml), indicating that the translation is up to date.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You should always use [en-US.toml](../translation/en-US.toml) as a reference. It is the only file that is up to date and comes straight from the developers. Do not use any other files!

Then you can start a test server with `npx nodemon` and start translating. If you insert the address `https://localhost:3443` into your browser, the website should be there and it should automatically update as you make your changes (after reloading the page). Make sure that you have selected the language that you are editing in the website's UI. There is a footer with a language selection dropdown at the bottom of almost every page.

In case you are updating an existing language and you aren't sure what has changed since the last update, you can view changes of `en-US.toml` in [the official changelog](../translation/changes.json) or in the [file commit history](https://github.com/Infinite-Chess/infinitechess.org/commits/main/translation/en-US.toml).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If there is an HTML tag in the value you want to translate, do not modify it!
> 
> Example of an HTML tag:
> ```html
> <a href="https://www.google.com"> Hello World </a>
> ```
> In this example you should only change the words *Hello World*.

When you are finished, you should open a pull request as described in [SETUP.md](./SETUP.md).

## Conclusion ##

Thank you for your contribution! In case of any trouble or questions, you can join [the discord](https://discord.gg/NFWFGZeNh5).
