## Themes Update - v1.5 - Released! 

- Adjust the color of the board from a wide variety of options inside the new settings dropdown menu!
- Choose whether legal moves are represented by dots or squares!
- On desktop, adjust your perspective mode mouse sensitivity and field of view!
- The settings dropdown also includes a ping meter, so you can tell how strong your connection is!
- The language selection has been moved from the footer to the settings dropdown.
- Preferences are saved both on the browser, and on the server, so it will remember them wherever you go!
- Completely redesigned the header bar! Added the Infinite Chess logo, vector graphics for each link, the settings gear dropdown. Also, there's no more horizontal scrolling needed on mobile, because the links adapt to the available space!
- The board can now be thrown by the mouse, as it retains its momentum! This is yet to come on mobile.
- Login sessions are now automatically renewed when you reconnect 1 day after the previous renewal! No more abruptly being logged out when you are in the middle of a game.
- Migrated members' account storage to a SQLite Database system.
- Each member has been given a unique identifier. This cannot be changed, and cannot be reused when the account is deleted. Now, even when players change their name, their id will forever point to the same account. Game notation now includes the id of each player.

<!-- - It's possible now for variants to feature different moves for each piece. This opens up the opportunity for a "5 Dimensional" variant, and a hexagonal chess variant. -->
<!-- - Fixed bug with server's time not being synced -->