# Released Infinite Chess 1.7!

This update implements three exciting new features- Ranked play with a leaderboard, arrow and other annotation drawing, and snapping!

## Ranked + Leaderboard

* Users can now choose to play rated games from the lobby! Win games to boost your own elo! Get estimates on your opponent's skill level.

* Added a leaderboard page. How high can you climb? New players aren't immediately displayed on the leaderboard, only after their approximately first four rated games.

* Updated username containers to display their elo, and hyperlink to their profile. Usernames are also now visible on mobile.

## Annotations

* Right-click the board to highlight squares, and right-click-drag to draw arrows! These can be used to help you analyze positions, or for streamers to show their chat what moves they're thinking of!

* Double-right-click-drag to draw *rays*, which are an infinite line of square highlights in one direction. These can be used to quickly and efficiently line up long-distance attacks, without having to perform mental math to calculate what squares you need to land on.

* Left click to collapse annotations. By default, this erases all square and arrow highlights, but if you have any drawn rays, then instead square highlights are added at all ray intersection points, and all rays are erased.

* When zoomed out, annotations are rendered the same size as the pieces, and squares and rays can be clicked to automatically zoom into them.

* Added a lingering annotations toggle in the settings dropdown. When enabled, selecting pieces will not automatically erase your existing annotations. This allows your annotations to persist from move to move, allowing you to remember key squares or line up attacks beforehand. You can still erase annotations by clicking an empty region of the board.

* Mobile users have a new annotations button on the navigation bar, which when enabled will treat all touches as their right-click counterpart, allowing you to draw annotations without requiring a mouse. This means mobile users are not disadvantaged against pc users by not being able to draw rays to help line up long distance attacks.

## Snapping

* When you are zoomed out, and you hover the mouse over any legal move line or highlight line, your mouse will snap to points on that line that cardinally intersect with other pieces, or annotations, and clicking will immediately zoom you into that point! This makes it quick and easy to line up attacks without having to meticulously find the exact square you need.

## Other additions

* Added a piece-animations toggle in the settings dropdown. When disabled, pieces instantly teleport from their start square to their end square.

* Mini images, even when they are disabled in large variants, now **always** render pieces above square highlights, and the piece last moved. This is useful for keeping track of important pieces while zoomed out in showcase variants.

* Preset rays and squares have been added to the Omega^2 showcase to emphasize the important lines and squares for the main line of play. These are permanent and cannot be erased. Game notation also now supports preset squares and rays.

* Holding alt and left clicking performs a right click instead.

* Added an automated password reset system on the Login page, should users forget their password.