# Big Update Release - Infinite Chess 1.6!

We're excited to announce the release of an update that's been long in progress! The main focuses are a new **checkmate practice mode**, the ability to **drag pieces**, and new **variants**!

* There's a new **Practice** menu on the title screen. Play against an engine to practice your checkmating skills against a lone king in lots of endgame configurations! Can you master every single checkmate known?

* Earn radiant badges the more practice checkmates you complete! The highest badge you earn is displayed on your profile page for visitors to see.

* Pieces may now be dragged to move them. This is toggleable in the settings menu. Holding control will force drag the board instead of a piece.

* Drag pieces onto arrow indicators on the edge of the screen to capture the piece the arrow is pointing to, if it is legal!

* Piece movements and behavior are now highly customizable per variant. This has opened the door for new and exotic variants below. In addition, compatibility has been added for 4 dimensional variants of any size/depth/space!

## Variants

* New: **Confined Classical** by tsevasa. A wall of obstacles covers your rear, offering some protection against overpowered flank attacks, without inflating the number of pawns in the game.

* New: **Chess on an Infinite Plane - Huygens Option** by V. Reinhart. This features a new piece, the Huygen. The Huygen moves in the same direction as rooks, except it is a *prime* rider, meaning it only skips on squares which are a prime distance from its starting location. This has interesting mathematical implications on the infinite chessboard. Can you master its movement and dominate your opponents?

* New: **4x4x4x4 Chess** by tsevasa. In this 4 dimensional variant, all pieces have gained the ability to jump across boards in different dimensions! The queen's movement imitates the princess, and the pawn's movement imitate the brawn, which are both found in 5D Chess with Multiverse Time Travel.

* New: **8x8x8x8 Chess** by Jace. 64 squares. 64 boards. Chessboard inception! This variant was designed to be a reflection of 5D Chess with Multiverse Time Travel. Move interdimensionally across space and time to other worldly boards! The checkmate algorithm is disabled in this one, be careful not to step into check! The game ends when just one of the many kings are captured.

* Deleted: Amazon Chandelier, Containment, Classical - Limit 7, and CoaIP - Limit 7. These were among the least played.

## Other additions

* Added compatibility with the Royal Queen, and Rose piece. The Royal Queen is similar to a queen, but it will lose you the game if it is checkmated. The Rose piece behaves like a knightrider that leaps in circles. No variant features these yet (people are welcome to submit variant suggestions!).

* All contributors to the infinitechess.org source code are now listed on the homepage. Thank you all!

* Fixed the auto-aborting for "cheating" that ocurrs when you move a piece a distance of 1e21 or greater in an online game. You can now move as far in online games as you can in local games! Although you will still experience graphical glitches, those will be patched later.

* Added a spinny-pawn animation while each game loads.

* Your coordinates are now editable in local games.

* Several other user experience improvements and bug fixes. Too many to list here!