# New video released + Infinite Chess Update 1.8!

<iframe src="insert link here" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

## Infinite Board

* The size of the board has been HUGELY increased! Removed soft zoom limits, allowing players to move much, much further, without experiencing glitches!

* Added special board effects when you travel to extreme distances from the origin, amplifying a feeling of peeling back layers of reality. How far can you travel?

* Added ambiences over 1,000 squares away from the origin. 

* Added a screen shake effect for large moves.

* Added a new move sound and visual effects when moving extremely far.

* Added a world border in Checkmate Practice games, and in the following variants: Obstocean, 4x4x4x4 Chess, 5D Chess, and Chess. Engines are not capable of infinite move distance, so this prevents them from breaking this update.

* Added a Starfield effect inside VOID.

* Added a Sound dropdown menu in the settings. Control the master volume of the game, and toggle on and off ambiences.

* Added two toggles in the Appearance (renamed from Board) dropdown menu in the settings to toggle the Starfield or Advanced Board Effects.

## Premoves

* Added premoving! Move your piece while it's your opponent's turn to register it to be auto-submitted as soon as it's your turn again, assuming legality.

* Disable premoves in the settings.

## Other

* Added new variants: Chess on an Infinite Plane - Roses Option, Chess on an Infinite Plane - Knightriders Option, and Palace. These feature the Rose (NEW), Knightrider, and Amazon! The Rose piece moves like a circular knightrider, turning 45 degrees after each jump. Also, deleted the Knighted Chess variant.

* Added news post notifications. A red bubble appears next to the News hyperlink when you are logged in and have unread news posts. New news posts also have the "NEW" tag next to their date.

* Patched the reverb effect on large moves commonly being abruptly cut off.